Welcome to this video on Introduction to Multiple Linear Regression.
After watching this video, you will be able to
Describe multiple linear regression,
Compare multiple linear regression and simple
linear regression, and
List the pitfalls of multiple linear regression.
Multiple linear regression is an
extension of the simple linear regression model.
It uses two or more independent variables
to estimate a dependent variable.
Mathematically, the multiple regression
model is a linear combination of the form
y hat equals theta zero plus theta one x one,
where the x one are the feature vectors that
can be represented as a matrix x that includes
a constant value of one in the first entry
to account for the bias or intercept term
theta underscore zero, and the thetas are
the unknown weights, which can be represented as matrix theta.
Let's consider the dataset in this table.
Multiple linear regression can be used to
measure the strength of each independent
variable's effect on a dependent variable.
You can predict the CO2 emission of a motor
car from features like engine size, number
of cylinders, and fuel consumption by forming a
linear combination of the features using
trained weights, theta i. You can use the
trained model to predict the
expected CO2 emission of an unknown case,
such as record number 9.
Simple linear regression results in a better
model than using a simple linear regression.
However, adding too many variables can cause your
model to overfit or essentially memorize
the training data, making it a poor predictor for
unseen observations.
To improve prediction, categorical independent
variables can be incorporated into a regression
model by converting them into numerical variables.
For example, given a binary variable such
as car type, the code zero for manual and one for
automatic cars can be substituted
to make it numerical. For a categorical variable with more than
two classes, you can opt to transform it into new
Boolean features, one for each class.
Multiple linear regression has applications in every
industry. It is widely used in the
education sector to predict outcomes and explain
relationships between variables. For example,
do revision time, test anxiety, lecture attendance,
and gender affect student exam performance?
Multiple linear regression can also be used to
predict the impact of changes in what-if
scenarios. What-if scenarios involve hypothetical
changes to one or more of your model's input
features to see the predicted outcome.
For example, suppose you were reviewing a person's
health data. In that case, multiple linear
regression might be able to tell you how much
that person's blood pressure would rise or
fall for every change in a patient's body
mass index, BMI. The what-if scenario can sometimes provide
inaccurate findings in the following situations.
You might consider impossible scenarios for
your model to obtain predictions. You might
extrapolate scenarios that are too distant
from the realm of data it was trained on.
Your model might depend on more than one variable
amongst a group of correlated or collinear variables.
When two variables are correlated,
they are no longer independent variables because
they are predictors of each other. They are
collinear. You can perform a what-if scenario
with a linear regression model by changing
a single variable while holding all other
variables constant. However, if the variable
is correlated with another feature, then this
is not feasible because the other variable
must also change realistically. The solution for
avoiding pitfalls from correlated variables
is to remove any redundant variables from the regression analyses.
To build your multiple regression model, you
must select your variables using a balanced
approach, considering uncorrelated variables,
which are most understood, controllable, and
most correlated with the target.
Multiple linear regression assigns a relative importance
to each feature. Imagine you are predicting CO2 emission,
or Y, from other variables for
the automobile in record number 9.
Once you find the parameters, you can plug them into
the linear model equation model. For example,
let's use theta 0 equals 125, theta 1 equals
6.2, theta 2 equals 14, and so on. If we map these
values to our dataset, we can rewrite
the linear model as CO2 emission equals 125 plus
6.2 multiplied by engine size plus 14
multiplied by cylinder, and so on.
Now, let's plug in the 9th row of R and calculate the
CO2 emissions for a car with a 2.4 liter engine.
So, CO2 emission equals 125 plus 6.2 times
2.4 plus 14 times 4, and so on. We can predict that
CO2 emission for this specific car will
be 214.1. For a simple linear regression,
where there is only one feature vector, the
regression in the equation defines a line.
For multiple linear regression using two features,
the solution describes a plane. Beyond two dimensions,
it describes a hyperplane. Like
with simple linear regression, the values in the
weight vector theta can be determined
by minimizing the mean square prediction error.
Given a set of parameters, consider a linear
model based on the linear combination of the
parameters with the features. You can measure
the residual error for each car in the dataset as
the difference between its true CO2
emission value and the value predicted by the model.
For example, if the model predicts
140 as the value for the first car in the dataset,
using the actual value of 196, you
can see the residual error is 196 minus 140, or 56.
The average of all the residual errors
indicates how poorly the model predicts the actual values.
This information is called
the mean squared error, or MSC.
MSC is not the only way to expose the error of a linear
model. However, it is the most popular.
With this metric, the best model for the dataset
is the one with the least squared error.
The factor of 1 slash n in the MSC equation isn't
necessary to include to minimize the error,
so this method is called least squares linear
regression. So, multiple linear regression aims
to minimize the MSE equation by finding
the best parameters. There are many ways to
estimate the value of these coefficients.
However, ordinary least squares and an optimization
approach are the most common methods. Ordinary
least squares estimate the values of the
coefficients by minimizing the mean squared error. This
approach uses the data as a matrix and uses
linear algebra operations to calculate the
optimal values for theta. Another option is
to use an optimization algorithm to find the
best parameters. That is, you can use a process
of optimizing the coefficients by iteratively
minimizing the model's error on your training data.
For example, you can use the gradient
descent method, which starts the optimization
with random values for each coefficient. Gradient
descent is a good approach if you have a large dataset.
Multiple linear regression is an extension of the
simple linear regression model. It
uses two or more independent variables to
estimate a dependent variable. It is widely
used in the education sector to predict outcomes
and explain relationships between variables.
Multiple linear regression can also be used to
predict the impact of changes in what-if
scenarios. Adding too many variables can cause your model
to overfit or essentially memorize the training data,
making it a poor predictor for unseen
observations. To build your multiple regression model,
you must select your variables using
a balanced approach, considering uncorrelated variables,
which are most understood, controllable,
and most correlated with the target.
There are many ways to estimate the parameters for
multiple linear regression. However, ordinary least
squares and an optimization with random
values approach are the most common methods.
In this video, you learned how multiple linear
regression results in a better model than using a simple linear regression.